---
layout: post
title:  "The Basics of CSS"
author: Psylar87
comments: True
categories: jekyll update
---

<hr>
<br>

CSS, or Cascading Style Sheets, is a style sheet language used for describing the presentation of a document written in HTML or XML. Here are some basic concepts of CSS I am working on today:

<br>

<b>Selectors:</b> Selectors target HTML elements to apply styles. They can be element names, class names, IDs, attributes, etc.

```css
p {
  color: blue;
}
```

```css
.example {
  font-size: 16px;
}
```

```css
#header {
  background-color: #ccc;
}
```

<br>

<b>Properties and Values:</b> CSS rules consist of property-value pairs. Properties define the style to be applied, and values specify the settings for those styles.

```css
body {
  font-family: "Arial", sans-serif;
  margin: 20px;
}
```

<br>

<b>Box Model:</b> Every HTML element is considered a box, and the box model includes properties like margin, border, padding, and content. It determines how these elements are rendered on the page.

```css
div {
  margin: 10px;
  padding: 20px;
  border: 1px solid #000;
}
```

<br>

<b>Colors:</b> You can set colors using names, hexadecimal values, RGB, or HSL values.

```css
h1 {
  color: red;
  background-color: #f0f0f0;
}
```

<br>

<b>Text Styling:</b> CSS allows you to control text properties such as font-family, font-size, font-weight, text-align, etc.

```css
p {
  font-family: "Helvetica", sans-serif;
  font-size: 14px;
  font-weight: bold;
  text-align: center;
}
```

<br>

<b>Layout:</b> CSS is used to control the layout of a web page. You can set properties like display, position, float, and more.

```css
.container {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
}
```

<br>

These are just some basic concepts using CSS that I am in the process of mastering, CSS is a powerful language with many features for styling web pages. As I advance I'll encounter more complex concepts and techniques that I will share with you all.

<br>
<p>
<strong>Please Note: I am not an expert and this is more or less a way for me to help cement the basics of this concept in my own mind. If this is of any value to you, that's just an added bonus.</strong>
</p>

<hr>